Now we are able to send our requests, but from user point of view it's not visible if anything is done
about it.
So let's show it like this.
Just clearing the console and let's change the network speed right here to the slow 3G, just filling
the form.
User one This is an invalid request, by the way.
So if I click sign up here, the API call is in progress.
But during that progress we don't see anything about on the UI part.
User is not aware if there is an action going on after that click or here I can click multiple times
and each of them are triggering an API call to back.
And so these are not something that we should be allowing user to do.
First of all, we need to provide a feedback to user about their interaction is actually having an ongoing
action so that user would be waiting that ongoing process to be finished.
So for this one.
Let's add disabled functionality so the user won't be able to click multiple times when there is an
ongoing action.
So, so we are going to disable this button and also we are going to display some kind of indicator
about there is an ongoing action.
So let's start with the test once again.
So we are going to add our test to the sign up.
Spec us.
But the tests are going to be quite repeating.
Like the others, we are going to fill the form, then we are going to click the button, then we will
check the buttons, state and the the the layout we are looking for.
So instead of repeating each in these tests, we are going to have a setup function and in that setup
we will do the repeating part and we will just call the setup in each test.
So the the functionality we are going to repeat is basically this one in this test, we were querying
the input elements, then we were filling the form, then we were clicking the button.
So until this line, the querying the button, we are going to repeat those.
So just cutting this part, just cut it.
Then here in the interactions described, look, let's create a function, let's call this one is setup
form.
So we will do that in this function just pasting the the content I cut from this test.
But in this one we are using the button and also we are using the HTTP testing controller.
So let's make sure we have those variables here.
We will have the button and let's say this is initially any and we will have a CTP testing controller
which is going to be a HTTP testing controller type of variable.
And we are going to.
Assign them in this setup form and for the button as well.
And we will also use this fixture, native element, the sign up in the test.
So let's make sure we have the sign up as.
Variable here as well.
First of all, let's say the type will be extremely relevant.
Now in this test, we are going to just call the setup form.
And we can do the same thing in this one as well.
For this test, we were checking buttons to be enabled and we were filling the password and password
repeat fields.
Now we can call this setup form.
This is also filling the user and email fields, but that's not affecting this one.
So we can use the same function setup form here.
So just deleting these lines.
So in this one we were creating the elements, filling the field input and a password and password repeat
inputs.
Then we are creating the button and these are already being done in this setup form.
So before saving this one, let's move the karma to the front, saving it and the tests are still passing.
Now let's add our next test.
We are going to disable the button when there is an ongoing API call.
So the test is it.
Disables a button when there is an ongoing API call, so we will call the setup form.
Then we are going to click the button.
So this click will disable the button.
So we we must be calling fixture detect changes so that if this is going to disable the button, then
this needs to be reflected to the UI.
So we call fixture detect changes.
Then we try to click the button the second time.
And for the assertion part, we are going to receive a request to this one and we only expect one request.
We don't expect multiple, so we can use this one here.
And we also expect button buttons disabled property to be.
30.
So we are clicking the button.
We make sure the UI is updated.
Then we try to click once more and this is going to be making API call to this endpoint and we expect
this button to be disabled.
So let's save this.
So the test output is actually helping us about current behavior.
Here in the testing control controller, we say we are expecting only one call to this end point, but
we clicked twice.
So here expected one matching request for criteria but found two requests.
So basically this is saying the button is not disabled.
We are able to click it second time and that's why this is receiving second request.
And also since this is failing at this line, it's not checking if it's disabled or not.
So let's fix this one for this one.
Let's open the sign up component test first.
For this one, we can track the progress of the API request and let's have a properties here in this
class and let's call this one is API progress.
And initially let's say it's going to be false because the very beginning of the component initialization,
there is no API progress.
So as soon as user clicks the sign up.
It's going to be calling this function.
Then we can say this API progress to be true.
So we are updating that value.
Then we can use this API progress in sign up component html for this button so we can disable the button
based on this disabled function which is checking the equality of the password and password.
Repeat, but also.
So like here.
Is disabled or API progress.
So if API progress is also set, then the button will be disabled saving these changes.
Now the test is passing and let's try this one on browser.
Right here, changing the network to slow.
Let's fill the form.
Now clicking the sign up and here we see the button is disabled.
And if I try to click that one, it's not working.
And current implementation is not reverting the state back to not disabled.
So the button is remaining as disabled.
We are going to fix that part, but at the moment we achieved what we are looking for.
So as soon as we click the button it is disabled and it's not allowing second click to go through.
Now, other than just disabling the button, it's better to display an indicator like a spinner here
in the bootstrap.
Let's find that spinner.
And here for the buttons section.
Here we have this Spinner Progress Indicator and we can use this one in our component.
So the one I'm going to use is the second option here, this one.
So there is this button and there is this span.
And that's the one.
This is the rotating thing.
And there is this loading text.
So we will have this spinner and then we will have this signup text for our case.
So we will add this one and we are going to check the existence of this element and we can use like
the role right here.
So we are going to add the test for this one at the moment and we are going to query it based on this
role.
So just keep in mind that we are going to look for a span having this role status.
So let's add our test first.
So in this one it.
Display's spinner while the API request.
Is in progress.
So we call setup form.
We click the button.
Then we make sure the UI is updated.
Then we are going to get the spinner and the spinner is like we have the sign up query selector.
We are looking for.
For spin and that Ben has this.
Role attributes and the role is status.
So we expect this.
To be.
30.
So this is the test.
Saving it.
So this is failing.
Here.
This test is failing and the fix is going to be simple.
We will just add.
This span.
Right here.
Before the sign up text.
This is a child element to the button.
So we have this span.
Then after that span, we have the.
Text just saving this one.
Now one of our previous tests is failing.
We will get to it.
But if we check the the test, the display spinner, while the API request is in progress, it is working.
And if we open the browser, we see the spinner is visible.
But it is always visible.
It's not shown conditionally like for button disabled case.
We update that disabled status during the API progress, but the spinner visibility is not dependent
onto the the API progress at the moment.
So we are going to add a new test to make sure the spinner will only be visible during the API call.
But first, let's focus to the failing test.
So this it has sign.
A button is failing.
Let's find that test.
It has.
Sign up button.
So this one is failing because this is looking for the the button text content to be exactly to this
one.
But as we change the markup like we add entered here so it adds spacing around this signup text and
instead of having the exact equality check like to be instead of looking for it to be something we can
use to contain here.
So like we are looking for this button text to contain this signup text.
So this would make our tests more robust in terms of like the format of our HTML documents.
Like if we change the format of the documents, our test wouldn't be affected from that one.
So let's say this, and if the test is not automatically running, make sure you reload it.
Now the tests are passing, all tests are passing.
Now we can focus to the functionality we are looking for.
So the spinner visibility must be dependent onto the API request.
So if there is no API request, then there shouldn't be spinner on the page.
So for this one we can add a new test and we can say it does not display spinner when there is no API
request.
And for this one we can do like this.
We just call the setup form and we just.
Query the.
This this element without clicking the button.
We just queried the span with this role of status and we expect this to be.
Falsey.
Saving it.
Now this one is failing because we have that spinner in the component.
Now we are going to display the spinner conditionally.
So here in the sign up component is HTML.
This part will only be visible based on this API progress.
So we are going to use the engine.
If directive and the implementation is like this, we will have star and G if and.
The condition is this API progress.
So if this API progress is true, then this span will be visible.
And if this API progress is false, then the span will not be visible.
Saving this one.
And the tests are passing.
By the way, instead of having two separate test cases for the spin or visibility, we could have fit
these into a single test.
So like here, let's update this test.
So it displays spinner.
And let's update the description after clicking the submit.
So just removing rest.
Now the test description is telling us what to query and when to query those things.
So after setup form before clicking the button, we are checking this status span to be false.
Then after clicking the button we are looking for it to be treated.
Now we don't need this second test saving this one.
So this is working.
I have to mention that we shouldn't be doing multiple assertions in a test.
The intention is to make the failing test easy to debug.
But for this case, these two assertions are highly correlated and it fits to the test description.
So whenever we see a failure in this test case, it will not be taking too much time to figure out which
expect is failing.
So we verify the implementation is working, but we didn't test it on browser yet.
Let's do that.
Just changing the network to slow.
Let's clear the logs.
Filling the form with user one.
So like here, sending a sign up request.
We have the spinner and the button is disabled.
At the moment we are not doing anything.
After we receive the response, we are going to handle that part in the future lessons.